The calculation of the Exposure Index (EI) at Level 3 follows the same methodological principles applied in Level 2, however with an increased granularity of the economic data, according to determined segments (S1–S3). For each segment, data on capital investment (CAPEX) and operational expenditures (OPEX) have been compiled. At this type of infrastructure, water infrastructure, there are no revenues, as elaborated previously in the document. This type of information enables a more accurate estimation of the value at risk per segment and the subsequent assignment of the Exposure Index based on established thresholds. The monetary values used for analysis represent rough estimates.

Using the exposure classification matrix (presented in Deliverable D.2.1, Table 118), which relates levels of investment and revenue to predefined exposure thresholds, the Exposure Index for each segment has been determined. Table 5.55 summarises the corresponding EI values for all segments (S1–S3) of Gradaščica River water infrastructure. Again, it should be mentioned that the non-existing revenues translate to relatively lower exposure indices. The Exposure Index of segment S1 is the highest (3), which is in accordance with its highest initial investment cost, as there is the highest concentration of grey solutions and built structures and regulations within the water infrastructure. It should be mentioned that the most concrete regulating structure within the Gradaščica River is located within this segment (S1), Bokalce Weir, that also reflects on the high initial investment cost. It is followed by segment S3 with Exposure Index 2 that also has incorporated regulating structures; however, not as many as segment S1. Segment S2 is also shorter in length, which reflects on the initial investment. The lowest Exposure Index was obtained for segment S2, which is the most natural one, with considerably fewer regulating elements and structures when compared to the other two segments. This reflects on the lower initial investment cost and consequently lower exposure index.