Monetised risk translates the Potential Risk Index (PRI) to monetised value. To translate PRI values to financial loss (damages), monetisation curves are used. Due to the unavailability of the monetisation curves for water infrastructure at Gradaščica River, assessments of the % damage were made. It should also be mentioned that the values presented can be considered as “dummy values”, therefore the calculation is made only for one climate scenario to illustrate the procedure. By the results presented in Table 5.65, it is evident that the most (potential) damage to the water infrastructure itself can happen in segment S1, and the least in the segment S2. In general, higher damages can be noted for the impacts when reconstruction works are needed due to failure and collapse of assets. The lower damages are noted for increased maintenance. The Level 3 Climate Risk Assessment for the Gradaščica River reveals that acute hydrological hazards, particularly extreme precipitation events, pose the greatest threat to water infrastructure. While the Exposure Index is low due to the public nature of the infrastructure, the strategic importance of flood protection in urban areas is high. Vulnerability is elevated due to aging infrastructure and limited maintenance, resulting in significant PRI values under RCP 8.5. These findings underscore the need for targeted adaptation strategies, including improved maintenance or retrofitting to enhance resilience. It should also be mentioned that, if river regulating and flood protection critical infrastructure fails, and the flood occurs, the damages are present also in other structures — private and public — that are not necessarily considered critical. The effect of “protecting” other infrastructure cannot be expressed by the CAPEX, OPEX, and revenues of the flood protection infrastructure itself — preventing widerscope damage has to be kept in consideration when assessing “return” of investment and prioritising solutions. As already mentioned, the Gradaščica River (and accompanying infrastructure) is under state’s management and the interest in its resilience against floods, without generating profits, is of public interest.